# hello-world
The beginning of a coding adventure. It contains a journal of my progress. 
My name is Katpolice (Gilbert) and I'm offically starting my grind on becoming a developer today. 
I do have some past experience with programming like Scratch, Ev3 basic, RobotC and a bit of Python.
However, beyond that exposure and trial and error from years of experience with Robotics, I havn't formally taken any programming classes/courses. So as of today (July/2/19) I will begin my formal coding jounery with websites like Github, EdX, LeetCode, Khan Academy and Lynda.
Thank you for listening to my Ted talk. 

--------------------------------------------------------------

July/3/19 - 
I started working on the Community starter kit which is offered by The GitHub Training Team. I completed the first course step "Add a repository description". However, it seems like I messed up with the "EDIT the README" section and I'm trying to troubleshoot it. By the looks of it, it seems like I accidently messed up one of the steps and which off track. Resulting in a unfixable loop that I can't seem to fix and/or undo. Therefore it seems like I have to restart the whole Community starter kit. Currently on Lynda, I'm watching a playlist called "Programming Foundations: Fundamentals" inorder to get a strong foundation in programming. So far I learned about "machine languages" and appearly C+ is closer to it then somelike like Python. 
In other news, Whatsapp, Facebook, Instagram are having troubles with sending photos to other users on there platform. All 3 companies are owned by Facebook. Likewise, Twitter is having troubles with there private message system. I suspect a DDoS by some company or organization because it's literally the day before July 4th. Or it could be some shady plot to extract specific images and/or private messages from certain individuals/groups. Honestly, who knows at this point until there's a formal news conference. 
Random fact of the day: Warren Buffet filed his first tax return at age 13 to report income from his paper route, and claimed a $35 deduction for use of his bicycle. Source: https://www.factslides.com/i-9484 That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 

July/4/19 - 
Well it's offical. I broke the Community starter kit by the looks of it, I could restart the whole process which I'm considering. However it seems like I was a little bit ambiguous so I started working on "Reviewing pull requests" by The GitHub Training Team. I completed all 8 steps and I learned about pull requests and all of the possibilities and neat features about them. The biggest takeaway would be effective communicating about a change. For example, "This looks like it’ll be helpful to our users, but I’m not sure about the flow. I also have some concerns about the efficiency of these queries." or "Although this feature might be useful, do we have any data that identifies that our users need it?" both are which were directly taken from the "Reviewing pull requests" program. Although, I had a minor problem when I accidently progressed a few steps ahead. But, I managed to fix that by going back and working on those prior steps. It gave a bigger insight on what could have went wrong with my Community starter kit. It's possible that I committted the pull request with the master so that I was unable to work on any of the steps in between #2 and the final product. I will look into this further tomorrow. I downloaded Atom eariler today so I could start typing out and messing around with code. Appearly, there's a fit with the "best text editor" and I think it ultimately depends on your own preferneces. Currently on EdX, I decided to resume my progress on Python Basics for Data Science by IBM. I honestly forgot about it, until today. Currently on Khan Academy, I started watching 1 Organic Chemistry video a day starting from about 2 weeks ago. But recently I got interested in the Computer Science section instead. Currently on Lynda, I finished my first chapter and it was on "Programming Basics". I eager to learn about the next chapter which is about "Core Programming Syntax". In other news, there was a 6.4 magnitude earthquake west of Las Vegas and north of Los Angeles. I hope that everyone that was affected is safe. Random fact of the day: Lighting hasn't brought down a plane since 1963, due to careful engineering that lets the electric charge of a lightning bolt run through the plane and out of it. Source: https://www.factslides.com/i-10752 That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 

July/5/19 - Today I found out that you can create your own website on Github. I sucessfully created a website and I'm planning to transfer my journal entries as blog posts on my website in the near future. In the mean time, I also played around with Wix and Wordpress and found out that GitHub and WordPress would be my go to. I actually found out about the whole concept of hosting from Github from the learning labs. I downloaded atom-beautify and oh boy my code does look colorful and codelike. So, I started to do some html and I honestly forgot what did what. I did learn a little bit of html before forgetting about it. So, I tried a format that I got from the web and I didn't like it. So, i chose to write my own code from scratch. I learned about subpages thank to StackOverflow and boy the amount of help/coding advice on that site is on par with Github. (And Google) Currently on Lynda, I learned about why JavaScript is so important, how to create your first program in JavaScript and requesting inputs. Currently on Khan Academy, I learned about how it's possible to generate "English looking" text using Markov chains. In other words, English is filled with randoness and statistics. Also, this Markov theory can be used to explain "communication." Currently on EdX, I learned about sets and how you can visually represent them with a Venn diagram. In other news, Appearly Nathan Phillips Square can fit about 100,000 people during the Raptor's parade. Also, a one stop subway extentison cost 4 billions for poltical and zoning reasons. So, that's interesting and the back and forth debate about the general area Scarborough about a "subway extension" for at least 30+ years? Honestly, that's an oof. Random fact of the day: In 4 of the 5 largest cities in the U.S., it's cheaper to rely on Uber than to own a car, a 2018 report found. Source: https://www.factslides.com/i-10758 That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 

July/6-9/19 - I did manage to do a little bit of programming on each of the day, but I didn't do enough to prompt a daily add-on for each date due to other commitments. Also, I switched from Atom to Visual Studio Code because it's "meta". Currently on Lynda, I learned about variables and data types. I got an introduciton to variables and data types, how to use duck-typed languages, the ins and outs with numbers, characters and strings, working with operators, properly using white space and adding comments to code for human understanding. Likewise, I learned about writing conditional code. In terms of using if statements, complex conditions, comparison operator and switch statements. Currently on Khan Academy, I learned more about computer science and algorithms. Currently on edx, I did some lab questions about sets. In other news, Bombardier are cutting half of there staff (550 of 1100) at their Thunder Bay, Ontario, Canada plant. Which is kind of odd because they still own the TTC well overdued streetcars. Random fact of the day: Netflix is responsible for 15% of global Internet traffic. Source: https://www.factslides.com/i-10760 That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 

July/10/19 - I got some sores which are mainly from not taking enough breaks inbetween coding, I'll keep that in mind for the future. Currently in Lynda, I learned about modular code. Topics like why you should be breaking your code apart, how to create and call functions, setting parameters and agruments, understanding variable scope and splitiing ocde into different files. Currently on Khan Academy, I learned more about computer science and digged even deeper in algorithms. Currently on edx, I learned about how to create and use dictionaries in python. In other news, the classic political blame game is happening in regards to the layoffs with Bombardier. I don't like the outcome of this. Random fact of the day: People who think their opinions are superior to others may be most prone to overestimating their relevant knowledge and ignoring chances to learn more, a study found. Source: https://www.factslides.com/i-10756 That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 

July/11-16/19 - Well these sores translated into infections and let's just say that wasn't fun at all. Anyways, I'm currently getting better to the point where I can actually sit for once. Currently on Khan Academy, I somewhat managed a computer science video everyday. Currently for edx and Lynda, I wasn't able to watch and learn, let alone program for the duration of time sadly. In other news, Ikea is closing down it's only US production site and moving it to Europe. Random fact of the day: Lighting hasn't brought down a plane since 1963, due to careful engineering that lets the electric charge of a lightning bolt run through the plane and out of it. https://www.factslides.com/i-10752
That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 

April/3/20 - Well alot of things happened since my last update. A three week long summer vacation, summer job making bubble tea, qualifying for vex provinicals and senior year of high school. Also, a few bad things like a concussion, COVID-19 and school being closed indefinite. Regardless, I'm going to champion the way and get back to my coding adventures. OHhyeah, I got a free 12 year old laptop so that's neat. Sadly, I can't install Microsoft Visual Studio on it but Notepad++ will do. My resource of choose right now is University of Watrloo OpenCS because honestly I need a structured to help me get back into the groove. That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 

April/4/20 - Today I learned Python with a course called Automate the Boring Stuff with Python Programming which I got for free on Udemy. I reviewed the basics and got right into flow control. (Eg. charts, if, else, elif statements, while/for loops) It was very interesting. That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 

April/5/20 - Today I learned about how to use and create functions in a global and local environment. Likewise, with handling errors with try/except statements. That's all for today, Katpolice (Gilbert) signing off. 
